Saints Row to finally makes its assault
on the PC but it's unfortunately not
worth the wait like it's counsel
counterpart it's a morality free
alternative to gta4 an unremorseful
descent into mindless mayhem fans of the
original Saints Row won't notice any
major advancements neither the gameplay
or storytelling though and there are
some truly haunting technical problems
around every turn Sancho too does retain
the feeling of unrepentant joy sandbox
fans longed for but the technical
problems for the damper on reliving the
role of Stillwater's favorite immoral
dirtbag unleashing unprovoked havoc on
the streets of still water can be as
much fun on the PC as it was in the
consoles while the core elements have
made the transition intact the visuals
have taken a serious hit on a PC that
exceeds the recommended requirements
Saints Row 2 has a choppy framerate and
jarring pappan that makes driving of
pain firefights are particularly
agonizing trying to mow down a target
from afar even a stationary one is a
matter of luck more than dexterity
anyone planning to play this game on a
modest PC rig should proceed with
caution the missions are predominantly
drive and shoot with three gangs
opposing you as well as various law
enforcement agencies
the majority of missions boil down to
rating a building and killing everyone
who moves it's not the most original
concept but the unrestrained freedom
makes the missions in st. row to so much
fun enemies can be killed at any time
using any weapon in your arsenal being a
pistol rocket launcher or just tossing
them around like a rag doll this freedom
extends to every element in the game
letting you take down enemies in
whatever manner you see fit
you can also partake in side quests
which are much more original than the
standard missions and distract you from
the story writing a flaming go-kart or
fending off waves of zombies is a blast
Sancho two fully embraces its sandbox
moniker letting you carve your own path
of destruction without any arbitrary
strings tying you down playing co-op
with a friend is a lot of fun and it's
well implemented the entire city is open
your crime wave whims just make sure you
have an understanding with your
cooperative pal
one person's violent actions will set
cops loose on both players the human
interaction makes an already great
campaign even better there are also a
few competitive multiplayer modes but
they aren't quite as engaging as a
cooperative portions but they can
provide some excitement in brief bursts
controls that were so smooth in the
console iterations feel uneven on the PC
you'll have no problem running around
the city using either controller or
keyboard and mouse combination but the
subtle combat maneuvers that were
possible in the console versions have
been hampered here because of the
inconsistent framerate before it was
possible to target specific parts of
your enemies bodies with ease
letting you cripple your opposition with
a happy smile on your face the long
range fighting is now a painstaking
affair forcing you to make the fights
much more intimate the aiming is
unreliable and the lack of the lock-on
ability or cover mechanics will force
you to run up to enemy's and seize them
for temporary cover or to quickly
dispose of them don't get me wrong for
having enemies in hurling them 23
millions devilishly fun but the other
aspects of combat are too inconsistent
to be rewarding it's a shame the PC port
is so poor because the core of Saints
Row 2 is still a blast the great
cooperative integration unique
activities and senseless chaos are just
as creative and silly as they were in
the console iterations but everything is
hampered by severe technical problems if
you have a powerful gaming rig you can
create some serious havoc in Saints Row
2 but for everyone else this lazy port
should be avoided